This is a port of the popular (well I like it :) game xBill to the GTK
widget set and GNOME libraries.  The main changes are removal of all
Xt, Xaw and Motif code (replaced with GTK/GNOME code), and translation
of Xlib code to equivalent GDK code.

Since the code was very modular, the code that had to be changed was
localised, reducing the amount of work I had to do.  Basically,
x11-gtk.cc replaces x11-athena.cc, and x11.h, UI.{cc,h},
Picture.{cc,h}, MCursor.{cc,h} and Game.cc had significant changes
made.  Also, Scorelist.cc was removed, in favour of using GNOME's
score handling routines.

Also, the cursor files were changed from XBM's to XPM's, since there
doesn't seem to be anything in GDK for reading XBM's from files (even
the gdk_imlib didn't seem to have support).

To build this, you will need a C++ compiler, the gnome-libs package
installed, and all the libraries needed to build it.  You DO NOT need
GTK--.  just run configure with the --prefix option pointing to your
GNOME installation root, followed by make, and then make install.

Then type gnome-xbill and start playing.  BTW, the reason the version
is so high, is that I used the one on the original xBill package.

                          James Henstridge <james@daa.com.au>

------------------(The original xBill README file)------------------

       Welcome to xbill...

       Ever  get the feeling that nothing is going right?  You're
       a sysadmin, and someone's trying to destroy  your  comput-
       ers.  The little people running around the screen are try-
       ing to infect your computers with Wingdows [TM],  a  virus
       cleverly  designed to resemble a popular operating system.
       Your objective is to click the mouse on them, ending their
       potential  threat.  If one of the people reaches a comput-
       er, it will attempt to replace your operating system  with
       the  virus it carries. It will then attempt to run off the
       screen with your vital software.  The game ends when  only
       0 or 1 of your computers is being productive.  Additional-
       ly, some computers  are  connected  with  network  cables.
       When  one  computer on a network becomes infected, a spark
       will be sent down the cable, and will infect the  computer
       on the other end when it reaches there.

       Clicking the button on one of the little people will cause
       it to cry out in pain and melt (id software eat your heart
       out!), dropping the stolen os if it is carrying one.  If a
       computer is running Wingdows or is temporarily off, the os
       can  be  dragged back to the computer (or another computer
       compatible with that os).  To extinguish a spark drag  the
       bucket of water from the upper left corner onto it.

       The status bar at the bottom tells the following:
               Number of Bills on/off the screen
               Number of Computers running their OS/off/Wingdows
               Level
               Score

OPTIONS
       -l n, -L n
              Start at level n.

       -v     Print version number and exit.

       -h     Print help and exit.

       All standard X Intrinsics options are also supported.


AUTHORS
       Main Programmer:
            Brian Wellington <bwelling@tis.com>
       Programming & graphics:
            Matias Duarte <matias@hyperimage.com>


COPYING
       Copyright (c) 1994-6 Psychosoft

       It's  FREE!  If you want to express your undying gratitude
       to us for bringing a small bit of meaning into your other-
       wise pointless existence, you could always send us e-mail.
       XBill is distributed under the GNU Public License.

       Go play the game now!

